today we're gonna learn how to make one
of the most popular Thai dishes and one
of my favorites Pad Thai and here to
teach us how is none other than Food
Network's chef jet Tila from battling
Chef Morimoto on Iron Chef America
to guiding Anthony Bourdain through LA's
Thai town on No Reservations chef jet
Tila is not only celebrated for his
expertise on modern Asian cuisine but
also recognized as the first-ever chef
to represent his country's culture and
cuisine in the United States
Bangkok market was the first time market
1972 was 40 years ago believe it or not
it wasn't even born yet I got to see the
tech community grow up around me and I
got to be an integral part of it and
thanks to my parents you know I'm just
kind of I'm carrying the torch that they
stir well this is why we had to have you
today to learn how to make pad thai now
let's talk about Thai food in general
what makes up Thai food so there's a
three-letter word that sums it all up
and that's why um that's young yeah
and all that means is all Thai
ingredients will fall into four flavors
hot sour salty and when you balance all
those flavors perfectly that's the YUM
that's like taste nirvana
so I'm gonna teach you how to make the
pad thai sauce which is the perfect
example of yo all right let's start with
a familiar flavor which is sweet and now
you've got sugar there so to that base
you have three acids lime juice tamarin
or rice vinegar
what is salmon I think a little taste
here I'll do this so it would be food
safe today and sour it's a clean
salaries right yeah we're lime juice
might be slightly sour and bitter
tamarins a very straight clean sour okay
so go forth all right although tamarind
right in there if you had just tamarind
you'd be fine if you had just lime juice
we had just vinegar but I like what the
little flavor Barings is each one's
great okay we have three left you
definitely left so we have to go salty
stop fish sauce in Thailand Thai we call
it numb plah and fill in tagalog it's
it's but these two etcetera all it is
guys is it's Thailand's
version of soy sauce and if you can't
get fish sauce okay how's that okay look
now we have a fork in the road we eat
it's spicy and time so for spicy
sriracha sauce if you don't like spice
do a little paprika and if you like
spicy spicy or not alright girl throw
that in there stir that around and
you've just made pad thai sauce now is
this something that you can do ahead of
time you can do this way ahead of time
and I tell you what you can be very chef
e multiply that by two three five or ten
and they just put in a squirt bottle and
you've just made your own pad thai sauce
refrigerator all right so it's cooking
time that's cooking time so I got my wok
hot always pre get your walks a little
bit know someone doesn't have a wok
yeah the wok is great because the heat
is centered at the bottom and whenever
you strip these around they fall back to
the middle so if you don't have a wok
you don't need one everyone has a Dutch
oven nowadays you have those really
fancy you know enamel eyes the cast iron
okay
that's super sexy or just a pan with
high sides soil and I promise I promise
never to use olive oil never to use
olive oil needs a huge tip I like olive
oil but the flavor clashes with kind of
the Asian flavors anything you know
garlic so I'll throw that right in there
right a dried shrimp pretty intense that
it's only delicious and food really
delicious it's a little dried shrimp in
there and then here I do want you to
taste this this is pickled radish oh
yeah good isn't it alright so um
proteins now we're in protein bill and
again I have four proteins
you don't need four proteins you can
pick one to whatever you got on hand but
tofu is easy you can probably much fine
tofu everywhere right a little chicken
breast is going in and you like shrimp
right yeah alright and you're gonna do
the eggs now chef have you seen
ingredients in a pad thai that you think
are absolutely absurd that some people
do and you kind of want to set the
record straight
kills me when I see ketchup oh it's kind
of red it's gotta be ketchup no stop
using ketchup here will juice the
okay so check this out here's the cool
technique now I don't want like super
scrambled eggs to watch I just kind of
break the yolks oh and I push things
against like the side and I'll let the
eggs and a dominate and so as it starts
to coagulate yeah so we need to talk
about noodles okay yes what kind of
noodles are we using so you want to use
rice stick noodles okay that's the best
kind of noodle if you've ever eaten
Vietnamese food there's a dish called BA
say nu ba noodles pad thai noodles are
the same they either come dry or they
come semi like semi fresh like fresh
pasta by the dry stuff soak it in warm
water until feel that and you can help
me describe with that - al dente I like
that very al dente right so you fold all
those together so and then tongs are
really nice to it this so what we're
looking for in the pan is the protein to
be done about half way too little all
right so the shrimp should be a little
pink huh the chicken should be almost
done absolutely and the noodles are
gonna go from al dente - almost like
cooked now it's time to go to sauce oh
it is oh this smells fantastic
the sauce is hit the pan it's starting
to caramelize the sugars are actually
reacting they're getting nice and sweet
they're making you stick together
and now we're gonna do some veggies so
I'm gonna show you a really cool trick
bean sprouts tend to scorch right with
direct heat so we're gonna steam them
slightly we leave a little bit for the
plate okay and then scallions same thing
and I want you to just kind of fold or
make a little bit sweet and sprout
you're doing perfect so that's so the
residual moisture in heat is encasing it
and saving it you got it and then with
that little noodle mist I'm gonna give
you half the peanut I'm looking at the
sauce in the pain right and I want I
don't want a pool so yeah and that's all
it's called reduction right so I'm just
reducing the sauce I'm cooking up the
moisture out of it and now you'll just
roll it around pull it together and you
just may
pad thai just industry I can't believe
that just that it's really simple recipe
and you see all the little bowls and you
just wonder okay is that it doesn't
actually take less than 10 minutes and
it does I'm gonna show you how to plate
this up because you know we eat with our
eyes food should live sexy you know it's
that's it I only serve sexy food at my
party better only sexy food of your
party so I'm gonna plate this kind of
cheated to one side here see I'm kind of
going to one side leaving a little like
bare area so this is this is one serving
right that's one of your servings right
I know you don't have to share it target
I want you to take this and plaster to
get decided maybe push it in a little
bit
and then I want you to find a little
zone next to the scallion and it right
there and then I'll take the peanut just
going to overtime ah and voila
are you kidding you are awesome
go for it go please alright cheers
Cheers
hmm so it's that balance mm-hmm of hot
sour salty sweet yes the noodles is
perfect carrier a little pungent from
the scallion I could eat a whole bowl of
this and it was so easy to me all right
chef thank you so much this is the
perfect Pad Thai and thank you for
watching I'm brandy we'll see you next
time on pop sugar